---

layout: strategy
title: "Semi Automated Marking"
category: strategy
tags: [Flexible & Adaptive Learning,]
description: "Use an existing bank of responses to provide rapid feedback to students"
subjects: "MTH135"
subjectnames: "Mathematics And Statistics In Health Sciences"
label: LEF

---

### Overview

Semi-automated marking and feedback allows for a more rapid return of assessments through the use of an existing bank of responses. These responses can come from previous marking and feedback within the subject and generated from common problems and mistakes that students may make as part of their learning journey. Some technology requires human intervention to either cast an eye over work in stages, or to move the documents from one system to another. This approach is evident in moving submitted assignments from EASTS to NORFOLK for electronic marking and, for some maths subjects EASTS/Spreadsheets/MAPLE. The automated part of the marking is completed by either a system (Maple) or from prerecorded/created feedback responses (NORFOLK).

### In Practice
<div class="u-release practice" >

<div class="practice-item">
<div class="practice-content" markdown="1">

#### Subject

MTH135 Mathematics And Statistics In Health Sciences

#### Teaching Staff

Dmitry Demskoy

#### Motivation

To replace hand written submissions in order to improve time efficiency in marking and return assignments to students more rapidly.

#### Implementation

The initial planning and development of unique questions for all students takes considerable time but once created marking can be very rapid and there is also more consistency across different markers.

</div>
</div>
</div>

### Guide

For the example above:

* Adobe Forms are used to create individual assessment questions which students complete and submit via EASTS.
* The files are downloaded and passed through MAPLE software which evaluates the answers against a set of requirements.
* The resulting file with feedback generated by MAPLE is uploaded back to EASTS.

NORFOLK provides a range of useful tools for speeding up the marking process. Using comment banks and audio feedback staff can speed up their processes dramatically.

### Tools

NORFOLK
MAPLE for Maths subjects.
