---
layout: post
title: "Role play"
date: 2016-07-19 11:03:00 +1100
category: strategy
tags: [Learning Communities, Interaction Between Students, Teacher Presence, Interaction with the Professions,] 
description: "Students assumes a role resolve a problem or create an artefact"
---

### Overview

Role plays are situations in which learners take on the profiles of specific characters or representatives in a contrived setting. Role plays are designed primarily to build first-person experiences within safe environments (Wills, Leigh, Ip & Albert, 2011, p. 17). By providing students with realistic scenarios similar to those they may experience in the workplace, students are able to solve problems and consider different perspectives while collaborating with classmates. This is consistent with Herrington’s description of ‘cognitive reality’ (Herrington et al., 2009, p. 45). In such situations, students are able to apply new knowledge and develop skills needed for the real world. Role play is widely acknowledged to be a powerful teaching technique in face-to-face, blended and online settings and has been singled out as an example of good practice by the Australian Learning and Teaching Council (UoW, 2003).

### Engagement

Student engage with each other in assumed roles. It could be argued that being online makes this easier for the students, and infact the idea of an online ‘persona’ is somewhat empowering. Students also engage with the content in a proactive manner and must demonstrate judgement and professional behaviours based upon their learning. 

### In Practice

#### Subject 

INR503 

#### Teaching staff

Lynnette Ainsworth

#### Motivation

To develop students professional readiness through engagement in authentic learning experiences based on current topics and relevance to industry.

#### Implementation

Student enrolled in *INR503 Industrial Relations Practice* work within small groups of 6 to 8, each student assumes a professional role - a company representative, union representative, employee representative, HR manager, HR assistant or industry representative. The class is given an Enterprise Bargaining Agreement midway through the session and the roleplay consists of the negotiation process. Lasting around three weeks, after which students reflect upon the process and write an individual, critical analysis as their summative assessment task. There is a minor, less formal group presentation in which each team shares their experiences via an Online meeting tutorial. Students utilise i2 Organisation sites act to act as virtual ‘study rooms’. 

### Guide

Some useful ideas / advice:

- Once one Org site is set-up it can be easily duplicated to accommodate all teams.
- At the end of session, there may be student artefact which are useful for the next session
- It is suggested that such activities are conducted later in the session when students are less likely to drop a subject and relationships between students may already be established.
- Use the main teaching site to brief all students collectively and to debrief at the end of the activity.

### Tools 

Within the individual Organisation sites, links to relevant professional websites appear within the left-hand vertical navigation. Information relating to the task is presented in clearly labeled resources folders (including Enterprise Bargaining Agreement to be resolved) i2 tools are provided (async and synchronous) which include: Online meeting, announcement, discussion board. A resources folder is set-up for each role, so each student has his/her own space for sharing documents or recording their work. 

### Further Reading

<div class="apa-ref" markdown="1">

Herrington, J., Reeves, T., & Oliver, R. (2009). *[A practical guide to authentic e-learning](http://www.csuau.eblib.com.ezproxy.csu.edu.au/patron/FullRecord.aspx?p=465326)* Retrieved from EBL collection

Palloff, R. & Pratt, K. (2010). *[Collaborating online: Learning together in community](http://www.csuau.eblib.com.ezproxy.csu.edu.au/patron/FullRecord.aspx?p=529967)*. Retrieved from EBook Library

Wills, S., Leigh, S. & Ip, A. (2011) [Games, simulation and role plays](http://www.csuau.eblib.com.ezproxy.csu.edu.au/patron/Read.aspx?p=668307&pg=32). In *The power of role-based elearning: Designing and moderating* Retrieved from EBL collection

</div>